---
title: Specifications
description: Learn how to automatically generate OpenAPI specifications.
---

The built-in OpenAPI specification generation feature allows you to produce the specifications with absolutely *no code changes required*.

```bash
php artisan orion:specs
```

The command will create `specs.json` file inside the `storage/app/specs` directory.

## Customizations

### Info and Servers

Specifications' `info` and `servers`  fields are populated from the `orion.php` config file:

```php
'specs' => [
    'info' => [
        'title' => env('APP_NAME'),
        'description' => null,
        'terms_of_service' => null,
        'contact' => [
            'name' => null,
            'url' => null,
            'email' => null,
        ],
        'license' => [
            'name' => null,
            'url' => null,
        ],
            'version' => '1.0.0',
    ],
    'servers' => [
        ['url' => env('APP_URL').'/api', 'description' => 'Default Environment'],
    ],
],
```

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-light-bulb
---
If you haven't published the config yet, you can do so by running the following command:
::

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=orion-config
```

### File Path
If you would like the file to be stored at a different path (e.g. `storage/app/specs/example.yaml`), you can easily customize it by providing the `--path` option. Please note that a given path is a relative path.

```bash
php artisan orion:specs --path="specs/example.yaml"
```

### File Format

By default, the specifications file is stored in `.yaml` format. However, it is possible to store it in `.json`, simply by providing the `--format` option.

```bash
php artisan orion:specs --format="json"
```
### Existing Specifications

If you already have custom endpoints and their OpenAPI specifications, simply put the existing specification file anywhere inside the `storage/app` directory and provide the `--path` option to the command. It will generate specifications for the standard endpoints and merge them with the existing (custom) ones. Please note that the given path is a relative path.

```bash
php artisan orion:specs --path="specs/existing-specs.json"
```

::callout
---
icon: i-heroicons-exclamation-triangle
color: amber
---
As of now, the *generator* supports only the standard (provided by Orion) endpoints. Specifications, for any custom endpoints you create, won't be generated.
However, there are plans to make it possible in the next releases.
::
